Understanding Gazpacho in Python and its Application in Web Scraping (#6459)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: content/articles/understanding-gazpacho-in-python-and-its-application-in-webscraping/index.md

<!--more-->
This article will cover much concerning the web scrapping tool, its real-life applications, and how we can use the Gazpacho Python library for scraping web data.

### Table of contents
- [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Web Scraping](#web-scraping)
  - [Components of the Web Scraper](#components-of-the-web-scraper)
  - [Operation of the Web Scraper](#operation-of-the-web-scraper)
  - [Applications for Web Scraping](#applications-for-web-scraping)
- [Web Scraping in Python](#web-scraping-in-python)
- [Gazpacho library](#gazpacho-library)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)

### Prerequisites
To follow along with this tutorial, the reader should:
- Have a prior understanding of the basic Python concepts.
- Ensure Python is installed on the machines.
- Install Jupyter Notebook or another IDE/editor that can run Python.

Go to this [page](https://jupyter.org/install) to install Jupyter on your PC.

### Web Scraping

> Web scraping, also known as web harvesting or web extraction, is commonly used when obtaining information from the internet. It is much quicker and easier than the manual methods since it is an automatic method of extracting data from a web page by querying a web server, requesting data (usually in the form of HTML and other files that comprise web pages), and then parsing it to extract the needed information. This is made possible using automated software called ***web scrapers***, which is dedicated to performing data harvesting.

Reviewer: The sentence, "It is much quicker...." is too long. Consider breaking it into two parts.

- Extractor: This component processes the fetched HTML content from the web crawler module and extracts the data into a semi-structured format. It's also known as a parser module because it works with many parsing approaches, such as regular expressions, HTML parsing, DOM parsing, and Artificial Intelligence.
- Data transformation and cleaning module: The data collected by the extractor isn't ready to use right away; it needs to go through some sort of cleaning process before we can utilize it. For this, methods such as string manipulation and regular expressions can be employed. Extraction and transformation can be done in one process.
- Once we have extracted the needed data, it is stored in standard formats that can be stored in the database, in JSON, or CSV format in the storage module.
- 
#### Operation of the Web Scraper
For the web scraper to perform and accomplish the scraping process, it goes through various steps as stated below:

> - First, the web scraper downloads the requested content from multiple websites and web pages through the use of a web crawler.

Reviewer: ```suggested
- First, the web scraper downloads the requested content from multiple websites and web pages through a web crawler.
```

- Since most of the data from websites are HTML and unstructured, the web scraper will parse the downloaded content and extract structured data.

> - When data is extracted from an unstructured form into a structured form, the scraper saves it in one of several formats, such as CSV, JSON, or a database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When we extract data from an unstructured into a structured form, the scraper saves it in one of several formats, such as CSV, JSON, or a database.
```

- When the structured data has been stored, the web scraper will analyze the data obtained.

#### Applications for Web Scraping

> Web scraping is utilized in a variety of real-world scenarios, including:

Reviewer: Always use active tenses. For example, you could begin this sentence with...."We utilize web scraping.....". Go through the whole article and correct accordingly.

- For comparison, web scrapers can collect data from numerous e-commerce websites, particularly data relating to the pricing of a product.
- Content aggregators, such as news aggregators and employment aggregators, frequently use web scraping to provide updated data to their subscribers.
- Collecting data for sales and marketing purposes, such as emails and phone numbers.
- Used in SEO tools for website optimization for search engines.
- Data retrieval for machine learning projects.

### Web Scraping in Python
Web scraping involves a wide variety of programming technologies and techniques. In Python, web scraping is done with various libraries, that is:
- Requests: It is the most basic and essential library for web scraping, used for making various types of HTTP requests like GET and POST. However, with requests, it does not parse the HTML data retrieved, so libraries like Beautiful Soup are required.
- lxml: Since the request library cannot parse HTML retrieved from webpages, lxml is required. A fast, production-quality, and high-performance HTML and XML parsing library

> - Beautiful Soup is the most extensively used scraping library and produces parse trees for reading HTML and XML data and converts incoming and outgoing documents to Unicode and UTF-8 automatically.

Reviewer: Such long sentences can be hard to follow. Also break such long sentences into two.

- Selenium is a collection of programs rather than a single tool. It's a free testing tool for web apps that works across several browsers and platforms.
- Scrapy is a fast, open-source web crawling system that uses selectors based on XPath to extract data from online pages.
- Gazpacho is a modern, simple, and fast web scraping library. On this [site](https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2020/04/5-popular-python-libraries-web-scraping/), you can get to know more about the same.

### Gazpacho library
In this tutorial, we will focus on how we can use the Gazpacho library to automate data extraction from web pages and websites. This is a modern web scraping Python library, stable and installed with zero dependencies. It can combine the functionality of the requests and Beautiful Soup libraries by importing a few classes from each.

To use this library, check if Python is installed on your machine by typing the command `"python"` in the command prompt. If it is not installed, go to this [page](https://www.python.org/downloads/.) to download and install it.

> Once Python is installed and running, we can then install the library using the pip command below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once Python is installed and running, we can install the library using the `pip` command below:
```
